---
layout: post
title: Predicting Wind Energy
---

<div class="message">
Renewable energy is a topic I've been interested to learn more about, so for my next project I investigated the rise in renewable energy over time, focusing on installed capacity of wind energy in the U.S.. </div>

U.S. Wind Energy Facts:

- The U.S. currently generates enough wind energy to power over 25m American homes
- Provides a more reliable / resilient energy mix
- Reduces power plant emissions that have led to public health care savings
- Contributes to economic development across all 50 states

**Data Collection**

To gather my data, I used BeautifulSoup and Selenium to scrape energy data for each state. In aggregate, wind energy comprises 7% of the current energy mix.

**Time Series**

For my model, I was curious to see how the wind energy in the past would help predict both the current and future levels of energy.  The autoregression matrix below shows the installed capacity of wind energy for the U.S in MW for the corresponding current year as well as for the previous two years.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Year</th>
      <th>Megawatts (MW)</th>
      <th>MW - 1 year prior</th>
      <th>MW - 2 years prior</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>2015</td>
      <td>74,472</td>
      <td>65,877</td>
      <td>61,108</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>2016</td>
      <td>82,171</td>
      <td>74,472</td>
      <td>65,877</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>2017</td>
      <td>84,945</td>
      <td>82,171</td>
      <td>74,472</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**Linear Regression**

rmse = 212 MW


**Model Predictions**

Using this model, I plotted both the predicted and actual wind energy capacity through 2017.  I was then able to calculate the future predicted values out three years to 2020, shown in green. My model predicts installed wind energy capacity to reach 108k MW by 2020.


<div class ="message">
As of 1Q18, installed capacity was only 0.8% of the potential capacity of 106m.
<div>

Citations:

- [American Wind Energy Association](http://awea.org)
- [Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy](https://windexchange.org)
- [U.S. Wind Turbine Database](https://eerscmap.usgs.gov/uswtdb/)
